Game Overview
=============

|project| is a turn-based 4X (eXplore, eXpand, eXploit, eXterminate) space strategy game.
Each turn represents one year. Players simultaneously submit orders; the host (or engine)
resolves the year and generates a new turn for each player.

The Four Xs
-----------

**Explore**
    Send scout fleets to discover new star systems. Planets are only visible when within
    scanner range. Unknown planets appear as grey dots on the space map.

**Expand**
    Colonize compatible planets (those within your race's habitat range). Send colony ships
    loaded with colonists. Population grows each year based on planet value and growth rate.

**Exploit**
    Mine minerals (ironium, boranium, germanium) from planets. Build factories to increase
    resource output. Run production queues to build ships, mines, defenses, and research items.

**Exterminate**
    Design custom warships and dispatch fleets to contested systems. Resolve battles at
    locations where opposing fleets meet. Bomb enemy planets to reduce population and defenses.

Game Flow
---------

1. Set up a new game: choose universe size, density, and starting conditions.
2. Design your race in the Race Designer.
3. View your home system on the space map.
4. Issue orders each turn: set fleet waypoints, adjust production queues, allocate research.
5. Advance the year; the engine resolves all orders simultaneously for all players.
6. Receive messages describing events, discoveries, and battles.
7. Repeat until victory conditions are met.

Minerals
--------

Three minerals are used in construction:

* **Ironium** — structural components (hulls, armor, most weapons)
* **Boranium** — energetics (engines, many weapons)
* **Germanium** — electronics (scanners, computers, shields)

Minerals are mined from planet surfaces. Each planet has a concentration (0–100) that
decreases as the deposit is worked. Mineral packets can be flung between systems using
mass drivers.

Resources
---------

Resources are the annual production capacity of a planet — generated by colonists and
factories. Resources are spent from production queues to build ships, mines, and other items,
and a percentage is allocated to research.
